# Ph5.6 IoT Rainwater Harvesting System

Nowadays in these times of acute water shortage, it is extremely important to hold on to as much water as we can lay our hands on. One of the most valuable ways to gather water is by rainwater harvesting. It's practically free to collect rainwater and can be put to numerous uses once filtered. However, such an important process today is largely disorganized and haphazard. It is also disconnected. Our idea is to bring the system together in one unified and integrated module that is connected to the internet. IoT (Internet of Things) is a very major thing today and will be integral for our project. Our idea:

There'll be a tank connected to a both a Raspberry Pi and a LinkIt One. There'll be an interesting connection between the two boards. They'll be connected through a self-written script. The data that will be through the connection is mentioned below.

The Raspberry Pi (RPi) will basically have three devices attached to it - Ultrasound sensor to measure amount of water, a Light Dependent Resistor (LDR) to measure clarity of water, and a temperature sensor. The LinkIt One (L1) will have two servo motors connected to it. This will control the opening and closing of the lids of the tank. Now, opening and closing of lid is necessary because if it is open all the time, impurities will gather in it. The Webapp will have a button which will automatically open the lid. Similarly, lid can be closed. The other sensors will send data to the custom Webapp (that can be accessed through the localhost) that we'll make. It will send relevant data such as amount of rainwater collected, how clean the water is, and the temperature of the rainwater. When the user goes to the Webapp UI and presses the “Open the Lid” button, the RPi sends a digital signal to the L1. Based on this, the L1 will either open or close the lids through the Servo. It is the harmonious co-operation of the two boards that is the backbone of this project.

Rainwater Harvesting is necessary to ensure a steady, safe and free water supply for the future. So now that we streamline and automate the task of water collection, people will be more ready to adapt the new technology as it will be easier for them to use it. Traditional water harvesting methods are laborious and require work from the user's side. It is not easy for the common man to spend hours of their busy lives to use the traditional system. They have to check constantly how clean the water is, how much is collected, etc. 

Now that it is automated, people will find it easy to buy and install. So a lot more rainwater will get saved. The will have a lot of environmental impact. Even large institutions can use this automated system and create a larger impact on the environment.
